DRAFT - 22.0.0.2-beta blog (#1996)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-01-18-beta-release-post.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Support for new changes to SSL certificates in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2-beta"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ryan-storey
author_github: https://github.com/ryan-storey
seo-title: Support for new changes to SSL certificates in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2-beta - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2-beta offers just one new feature, supporting new changes in SSL certificates with urlencoded strings. 
blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.2-beta offers just one new feature, supporting new changes in SSL certificates with urlencoded strings. 
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= Support for new changes to SSL certificates in Open Liberty 22.0.0.2-beta
Ryan Storey <https://github.com/ryan-storey>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

Open Liberty 22.0.0.2-beta offers just one new feature, supporting new changes in SSL certificates with urlencoded strings. 

> We have two beta packages for link:{url-about}[Open Liberty]:
> 
> * <<allbeta, All Beta Features>>: a larger package that contains all Open Liberty beta features (including Jakarta EE 9 beta features) and GA features and functions.
> * <<jakarta, Jakarta EE 9 Beta Features>>: a lightweight package that contains only the Jakarta EE 9 features.
> 
> This means that you can now try out our in-development Open Liberty features by just adding the relevant coordinates to your build tools.
> 
> If you try either package, <<feedback, let us know what you think>>.
> [#allbeta]
> == All Beta Features package
> 
> The All Beta Features package includes the following beta features:

Reviewer: Not sure this formatting is correct but there is only one beta package now so...
```suggestion
[#allbeta]
== All Beta Features package
The All Beta features package for link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] contains all Open Liberty beta features and GA features and functions.

This means that you can now try out our in-development Open Liberty features by just adding the relevant coordinates to your build tools.

If you try the beta package, <<feedback, let us know what you think>>.

The following beta features are available in 22.0.0.2-beta:
```

Currently, WebSphere Application Server and Liberty Server do not support this new url-encoded certificate. Any request with this new format is rejected and the request is terminated.

An example of a truncated url-encoded certificate sent to application server:app-name:

[source]
----
[-----BEGIN%20CERTIFICATE-----%0AMIIDODCCAiCgAwIBAgIIHbO76YfCH1cwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAwOjELMAkGA1UE%0ABhMCVVMxDDAKBgNVBAoTA0lCTTEMMAoGA1UECxMDVFdTMQ8wDQYDVQQDEwZDbGll%0AbnQwHhcNMTUxMTAzMTYyODM1WhcNMzUxMDMwMTYyODM1WjA6MQswCQYDVQQGEwJV%0AUzEMMAoGA1UEChMDSUJNMQwwCgYDVQQLEwNUV1MxDz%2F%2Bpo%2FF%2Bzi%2F0sfAUwRdfgMm%2FAKAGzwMQufOYeKCgMULtq14QAJQnLmq4M%2FM00%0AC5QyeYtdaTou%2BMsLmoa1tkq2VSDVxAcktJyRSRsox36G7EHDLV4U2gtR6xczNEjw%0A2%2Bsj772FjdAMXRSR%0A-----END%20CERTIFICATE-----%0A]
----

Note: 
* (1) The header (i.e BEGIN ) and footer (i.e END) information are appended before sending to application server.
* (2) The encoded character (i.e %) presents in the certificate.

The IBM application server code is updated to auto detect and process this new format.

For more information, check out the link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/11680[GitHub issue] for this new feature.

=== Try it now 

> To try out these features, just update your build tools to pull the Open Liberty All Beta Features package instead of the main release. The beta works with Java SE 15, Java SE 11, or Java SE 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To try out these features, just update your build tools to pull the Open Liberty All Beta Features package instead of the main release. The beta works with Java SE 17, Java SE 11, or Java SE 8.
```

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.openliberty.beta</groupId>
  <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
  <version>22.0.0.2-beta</version>
  <type>pom</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty.beta', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[22.0.0.2-beta,)'
}
----

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/#runtime_betas[Downloads page].

[#jakarta]

> == Jakarta EE 9 Beta Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Jakarta EE 9 Features
```

> As of 21.0.0.12 the Jakarta EE 9.1 features are now out of beta and fully supported.  That means that you can either use them in the official 22.0.0.1 release, or continue to use them in the beta 22.0.0.2-beta package.  Just as before, you can enable the individual features you want or you can just add the Jakarta EE 9.1 convenience feature to enable all of the Jakarta EE 9.1 beta features at once:

Reviewer: Not sure I like this paragraph because ~there aren't any JEE 9.1 features in the beta zip~ JEE 9.1 features are not beta any more. At least I would cut it down to the first sentence...
```suggestion
As of 21.0.0.12 the Jakarta EE 9.1 features are now out of beta and fully supported. [link to JEE 9.1 blog post]
```

[source, xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>jakartaee-9.1</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

Or you can add the Web Profile convenience feature to enable all of the Jakarta EE 9 Web Profile beta features at once:

[source, xml]
----
  <featureManager>
    <feature>webProfile-9.1</feature>
  </featureManager>
----

=== Try it now

> To try out these Jakarta EE 9 features on Open Liberty in a lightweight package, just update your build tools to pull the Open Liberty Jakarta EE 9 Beta Features package instead of the main release. The beta works with Java SE 15, Java SE 11, or Java SE 8.

Reviewer: So this bit would go as well
